Thoughts:

1.  Value, simplicity, and efficiency of scripts/text files.

a. Analysis


Most should be familiar with two processes to perform analyses, create graphics,
etc.  First is point-and-click like behavior and the second is script writing.
Users of R are typically script writers; the steps in the analysis pipeline are
written in a text file as commands to be performed by the engine (R).  Other
analysis packages may offer point-and-click options where the actions in the
pipeline are provided to the engine by clicking menu options.  Even if
point-and-click analyses have been performed, some software can save these
actions in a script that is available to the researcher (if they look up how to
access said script!).  If you are a point-click-person and saving your clicks to
a script is an option, turn it on.

Scripts are better than point-and-click methods.  It is foolish to think an
analysis will be "clicked" once, the results printed, and never returned to
again.  Questions like "How did you get those results?", "Can you update this
with this new observation?", and "Are you sure this is right?" are much more
easily addressed with scripts rather than a sequence of clicks.  The reason
these questions are easier to approach with scripts is because scripts are
*reproducible*.  Reproducible means...


b. Manuscripts/documentation/reports

Moving manuscripts out of Word/Google Docs and into text files can be
intimidating.  (Which is kind of bizarre since text files are so much simpler).
When I am writing and trying to decide if I should use text files or a document
preparation system, a question I ask myself is what is more important, the
formatting/appearance or the content (sentences and paragraphs)?  Almost always,
the answer is the content.  In this case, I am led to use simple tools that
allow me to create my content as simply and distraction free as possible--text
files.  If text files are used, the advantages discussed below may be leveraged.
In the end, attractive final documents may be produced from simple text files
allowing us to divorce the appearance part from the content part in document
preparation.

2.  Managing text files

a. Sharing a file between computers/users





b. Sharing a *project* between computers/users





Manging step one: passing/sharing a text file between multiple computers/users.
Let's compare this to sharing a Word document and a Google doc.  Sharing text
files exists somewhere between these two.  


Managing step two: passing/sharing *a project* between multiple computers/users.


3.  Powerful software for text files

a.  But what if I like formatting and pretty manuscripts?

I mentioned that we have divorced content from appearance by using text files,
however, I only talked about the content part and not the appearance part.
Many are familiar with LaTeX (if not with using it, then at least knowing that
it exists).  LaTeX is one direction to go.  Markdown is another.  


b.  Combining analyses and manuscripts





